# Protocol Source

Raw text extracted from `protocol_spec.docx`.

Message Specifications for UDP Multicast
Protocol
3.1.1 Message Format
The protocol for multicast distribution is UDP/IP.
The packet distributed consists of an Ethernet header, IP header, UDP header and tag data.
The tag data consists of a packet header from "3.2.1 Packet Header" and a tag or tags from "3.2.2 Tag Types".
Name
Offset
Length
Value
Notes
Example
Packet Header
0
26
Char/Bn
Tag Length (1)
26
1
Bn
Set as length of first tag.
Tag Data (1)
27
variable
Char/Bn
Tag Length (n)
variable
1
Bn
Set as length of n-th tag.
Tag Data (n)
variable
variable
Char/Bn
The number of tags in a packet
-The number of tags in a packet is determined by the maximum amount of data that can be delivered. In the current tag specifications, we expect the maximum to be 119 tags (T tag and 118 D tags). Information in one tag is never divided into
different packets.
The values used in tag data are as follows.
Value
Description
Main examples
Char
Indicates a character code. ASCII; left-aligned.
Tag Type, Issue Code, Side, etc.
Bn
Indicates a numerical value encoded by big-endian binary. Unsigned integer type.
All numerical items except Price
Bn (Price)
Indicates an unsigned long long type encoded by big-endian binary.
The last four digits are decimal fractions.
Price
3.1.2 Tag Blocking
When multiple tags are generated at the same time, these tags are blocked together into a packet.
Since there is an upper limit on the number of tags that can be blocked, if the number of tags generated is over this limit, the packet will be split.
When a
Since tags are blocked independently for each issue and each process, data for different issues are never mixed and data for different process, even for the same issue, are never mixed in the same packet.
3.2 Tag Data Types
Packet Header
Name
Offset
Length
Value
Notes
Example
Multicast Group Number
0
1
Bn
- Set to the Multicast Group Number.
52
Number of System Reboots
1
1
Bn
- Set to the number of times the system has been rebooted.
0
Sequence Number
2
4
Bn
Assigned from 1 on a multicast group basis. In principle, the numbers are consecutive, but if a single DF server failure or the system is rebooted, they are assigned from 1 again.
The combination with Number of System Reboots is unique through each business day.
10030501
Issue Code
6
12
Char
Set to the Securities Identification Code as assigned by the Securities Identification Code Committee. For FLEX MBO, Issue Code is set with leftalign. (For FLEX Standard, with right-align.)
However, in the case of a Reset tag (R tag) and a Communication Control
(L tag), this will be set to a space.
8697
Update Number
18
4
Bn
Assigned from 1 on a per-issue basis for each business day. In principle, the numbers are consecutive, but if the system is rebooted, they are assigned from 1 again.
Even when a packet is split, the same value will be assigned to information which are generated by one transaction of a Trading Server.
The combination with Number of System Reboots is unique through each business day.
However, in the case of a Reset tag (R tag) and a Communication Control
(L tag(L tag
(
L tag
(
L tag
6000207
Packet Number
22
1
Bn
- Always set to .
0
Total Number of Packets
23
1
Bn
- Always set to .
0
Utility Flag
24
1
Bn
(For UDP multicast, except for Automatic sending of snapshots)
When tag data which are generated by one transaction of a Trading Server cannot be distributed in a single packet, whether there is another packet following or not can be identified by this flag.
When there is another packet: set to
Other than the above: set to
0
Message Count
25
1
Bn
Set to the number of tags in the packet.
20
Note: 5.2 Notes for Receiving Snapshot Information for the values set in packet headers for snapshot information.
Tag Types
Tags supporting the MBO service are as follows.
Type
Name
Length
Notes
T tag
Seconds Timestamp
5
Provides information about the time of processing on the Trading Server to the nearest second. The time to the nearest microsecond is set in the time field of each tag.
Always delivered at the time the information is generated(Except in the case of delivering a Reset tag (R tag) and a Communication Control (L tag)).
Only one tag is delivered per process. If the packet is split, it is stored at the top of the first packet.
O tag
Trading Status
18
Provides information about the status of trading on a per-issue basis.
Delivered when there is a change in the tag.
K tag
Execution Summary
46
Provides summary information about execution.
Delivered when an execution occurs.
A tag
Add Order
26
Provides information about book registration.
Delivered when a new order or modification order is registered.
E tag
Order Executed
20
Provides information about registered orders in case of Zaraba execution.
Delivered when an execution occurs in Zaraba.
C tag
Order Executed with Price
29
Provides information about registered orders in case of Itayose execution.
Delivered when an execution occurs by the Itayose method or an execution occurs while an SQ or STQ is displayed.
D tag
Order Delete
11
Provides information about order deletion from the order book.
Delivered when an order is deleted via a cancel order or a modification order or when a registered order expires.
R tag
Reset
A tag requesting the resetting (i.e., cancellation) of all distributed information.
When the user receives this tag, the user must clear all valid A tags.
L tag
Communication Control
3
Provides information about communication control.
Delivered when communication starts and ends, and in between at minute intervals.
II tag
Issue Information
125
in the FLEX specifications.
BP tag
Base Price Information
68
in the FLEX specifications.
MG tag
Multicast Group Number Information
16
in the FLEX specifications.
3.2.3 Tag Formats
Seconds Timestamp  T tag
T tag
Name
Offset
Length
Value
Notes
Example
Message Type
0
1
Char
Set to
T
Time (Seconds)
1
4
Bn
Set to UNIX time (seconds since 1970-01-01 00:00:00UTC).
1704068110
Trading Status  O tag
O tag
Name
Offset
Length
Value
Notes
Example
Message Type
0
1
Char
Set to
O
Time (Microseconds)
1
4
Bn
Indicates the time to the nearest microsecond.
323234
Market Status
5
1
Bn
Indicates market status.
11: Morning session order acceptance time
21: Afternoon session order acceptance time
12: Morning session trading hours
22: Afternoon session trading hours
-
23: Afternoon session pre-
closing
19: End of morning session
29: End of afternoon session
12
Status Flag
6
2
Char
Indicates trading status.
A0: Trading halted (accepting orders)
A1: Trading halt lifted
B0: Itayose
B1: Itayose ended
C0: Trading suspended
C1: Trading suspension lifted
D0: Trading halted (not accepting orders)
Space: Other than the above
Space Space
Short Selling Status
8
1
Bn
Indicates application of the Short Selling Regulation.
0: Short Selling Regulation is NOT applied.
1: Short Selling Regulation is applied.
1
Pricing Method
9
1
Bn
Indicates method of pricing or status of quote display after the tag is delivered.
4
1: Itayose method
2: Zaraba method
3: Sell Special Quote displayed
4: Buy Special Quote displayed
5: Sell Sequential Trade Quote displayed
O tag
Name
Offset
Length
Value
Notes
Example
6: Buy Sequential Trade Quote displayed
0: Other than the above (e.g., at the timing of session end)
Book Center Price
10
8
Bn (Price)
Set to the book center price while the Itayose method is in place or while a quote is displayed.
1050000
Execution Summary  K tag
K tag
Name
Offset
Length
Value
Notes
Example
Message Type
0
1
Char
Set to K
K
Time (Microseconds)
1
4
Bn
Set to the time to the nearest microsecond.
323234
Triggered Side
5
1
Char
Indicates the side whose order triggered the execution.
S: Sell order
Space: Itayose execution
B: Buy order
B
Total Volume
6
6
Bn
Set to the total volume of executed orders (number of shares).
10000
Total Invalidation
12
6
Bn
Set to the total volume of invalidated orders (number of shares).
200
Last Price
18
8
Bn (Price)
Set to the last price at the time the execution was processed.
1000000
Match ID
26
4
Bn
An identifier for each issue is assigned on an execution basis.
It is unique and sequential through each business day.
601257
Best Offer
30
8
Bn (Price)
Set to the best offer at the time the execution processing finishes.
At market close, it is set to
1020000
Best Bid
38
8
Bn (Price)
Set to the best bid at the time the execution processing finishes.
At market close, it is set to
980000
Add order  A tag
A tag
Name
Offset
Length
Value
Notes
Example
Message Type
0
1
Char
Set to
A
Time (Microseconds)
1
4
Bn
Set to the time to the nearest microsecond.
323234
Order ID
5
4
Bn
An identifier for each issue is assigned on an order basis.
It is unique and sequential through each business day.
1001054
Side
9
1
Char
Indicates buy or sell.
S: Sell order    B: Buy order
S
Quantity
10
6
Bn
Set to the order quantity registered on the order book (number of shares).
2000
Price
16
8
Bn (Price)
Set to the price registered on the order book.
For market orders, this will be set to the maximum value (64bit).
1050000
A tag
Name
Offset
Length
Value
Notes
Example
Order Condition
24
1
Bn
Indicates the order condition.
0: Non-conditional
2: On-open
4: On-close
6: Funari
0
Modification Flag
25
1
Bn
When the A tag is generated by a modification order, this indicates whether there is a change of time priority or not.
1: Modification order that does NOT change its time priority (reducing the number of ordered shares, etc.)
0: Cancel order or modification order that changes its time priority
1
Order Executed  E tag
E tag
Name
Offset
Length
Value
Notes
Example
Message Type
0
1
Char
Set to
E
Time (Microseconds)
1
4
Bn
Set to the time to the nearest microsecond.
323234
Order ID
5
4
Bn
Set to the Order ID that was assigned to the executed order.
When a partial execution occurs, the same Order ID may be set multiple times.
1001054
Side
9
1
Char
Indicates sell or buy.
S: Sell order    B: Buy order
B
Volume
10
6
Bn
Set to the executed volume (number of shares).
100
Match ID
16
4
Bn
An identifier for each issue is assigned on an execution basis.
It is unique and sequential through each business day.
601257
Order Executed with Price  C tag
C tag
Name
Offset
Length
Value
Notes
Example
Message Type
0
1
Char
Set to
C
Time (Microseconds)
1
4
Bn
Set to the time to the nearest microsecond.
323234
Order ID
5
4
Bn
Set to the Order ID that was assigned to the executed order.
When a partial execution occurs, the same Order ID may be set multiple times.
1001054
Side
9
1
Char
Indicates sell or buy.
S: Sell order    B: Buy order
B
Volume
10
6
Bn
Set to the executed volume (number of shares).
100
Match ID
16
4
Bn
An identifier for each issue is assigned on an execution basis.
It is unique and sequential through each business day.
601257
Execution Price
20
8
Bn (Price)
Set to the execution price.
1080000
C tag
Name
Offset
Length
Value
Notes
Example
Adopted Pricing Method
28
1
Bn
Indicates the pricing method in place when the execution occurred.
1: Itayose method    2: Quote displayed
1
Order Delete  D tag
D tag
Name
Offset
Length
Value
Notes
Example
Message Type
0
1
Char
Set to
D
Time (Microseconds)
1
4
Bn
Set to the time to the nearest microsecond.
323234
Order ID
5
4
Bn
Set to the Order ID that was assigned to the cancelled order.
1001054
Side
9
1
Char
Indicates sell or buy.
S: Sell order    B: Buy order
S
Modification Flag
10
1
Bn
When the D tag was generated by a modification order, this indicates whether there is a change of time priority or not.
1: Modification order that does NOT change its time priority (reducing the number of ordered shares, etc.)
0: Cancel order, modification order that changes its time priority, or expired order
1
Reset  - R tag
Name
Offset
Length
Value
Notes
Example
Set to
When TSE needs to reset all distributed data, this indicates the start or end of the process.
1: Start (set when dissemination of the reset information is started) When the user receives this tag, the user must clear all valid A tags received prior to that point.
2: End (set when dissemination of the reset information is completed)
1
Control  - L tag
L tag
Name
Offset
Length
Value
Notes
Example
Message Type
0
1
Char
Set to
L
Test Mode Flag
1
1
Bn
Indicates production or test.
1: Production    2: Test
1
Start-End Flag
2
1
Bn
Indicates the start or end of communication.
1: Communication Start
2: Communication End
0: Health Check control
1
3.2.4 Tag Priorities
When multiple tags are generated by the same process, tag priorities are, in principle, as follows.
Priority
Tag Types
Notes
1
T tag
- Always delivered at the time information is generated.
2
O tag
- Delivered when there is a change in the tag. If there is no change, it is omitted.
3
K tag
- Delivered when an execution occurs. If there is no execution, it is omitted.
4
D tag
- Provides information about order deletion through modification orders or cancel orders, etc.
5
E tag/ C tag, D tag
- Provides information about execution or invalidation. On the same price level, execution (E tag or C tag) comes before invalidation (D tag). When information occurs on multiple price levels, for example when a buying-up occurs, the order of distribution is E tag, D tag, E tag, and so on.
6
A tag
- Provides information about registered order volumes stemming from new orders and modification orders.
Priorities among C tags
-In case of delivering C tags due to normal Itayose execution occurrence, the priorities among C tags are as follows.
(1st) Orders executed at the price at which there are remaining orders(either buy or sell),
(2nd) Buy orders at the price from lower to market buy order, (3rd) Sell orders at the price from higher to market sell order.
3.3 Appendix
3.3.1 Multicast Routing Maintenance Message
A Multicast Routing Maintenance message is delivered for each multicast group.
The  a packet header, and 1-byte spaces  are set in the data area.
The purpose of the message is to maintain and establish a multicast distribution tree, and to prevent message duplication before delivering the control messages (Communication Start and Health Check control), by sending it to the same multicast address as other messages.
Although the message is distributed from the exchange-side system to users, it is not necessary for the user-side application to capture the message, as long as it reaches the user-side system.
3.3.2 Special Examples to Consider for User-side Applications
(1) On-close orders/Funari orders at and after the start of Pre-closing
In a session with a closing auction, On-close orders are brought onto the order book as valid orders after Pre-closing starts.
In a session with a closing auction, Funari orders are brought onto the order book, not as limit orders but as market orders, after Pre-closing starts.
At the time Pre-closing starts, information about On-close and Funari orders being brought onto the order book as above is not distributed.
Also, On-close orders and Funari orders are sometimes sent during Pre-closing.
If a user constructs an order book or calculates indicative closing prices based on information from the MBO service, it is necessary to consider the above examples on the user-side system.
(2) A value set  tag in packet header in a UDP multicast
In opening auctions or other Itayose auctions, a large amount of execution information is generated.
When tag data which are generated by one matching process cannot be distributed in a single packet, the packet is split.
Also, in order to deliver an Execution Summary message without delay, a packet that contains a K tag is sometimes distributed prior to other packets.
In the above situations, by setting the Utility Flag value to  When there is another packet, it is possible to identify whether the information was generated by the same matching process or not.
The same method is used to deliver messages in the case of Zaraba execution where there is a large number of orders executed.
are are  at the time of arrowhead4.0 operation.
are
are
(Distribution example) Itayose execution in an opening auction
Packet No.
Total No.
Packets
of
Utility Flag
Example of Tags
Notes
0
0
1
T O K C C
C
In order to deliver the K tag without delay, the fist packet is delivered before the other packets. Since the Utility Flag is set to '1', there will be more messages that were generated by the same matching process.
0
0
1
C C C
C C
Since the Utility Flag is set to '1', there will be more messages that were generated by the same matching process.
0
0
1
C C C
C C
Since the Utility Flag is set to '1', there will be more messages that were generated by the same matching process.
0
0
1
C C C
C D
Since the Utility Flag is set to '1', there will be more messages that were
Packet No.
Total No.
Packets
of
Utility Flag
Example of Tags
Notes
generated by the same matching process.
0
0
0
D D D  D D
The last packet
(3) Example of where  an A tag is replaced, e.g., when the initial price of a newly listed issue is determined
Before the initial price of a newly listed issue is determined, the price limit range is not prescribed since there is no base price. When an initial price is determined during a session, the upper/lower limit prices will then be determined based on that initial price. Given this, On-close buy orders that had been placed at a price higher than the new upper limit price and On-close sell orders that had been placed at a price lower than the new lower limit price will be treated as orders placed at the upper/lower limit price.
When a base price is changed after order acceptance starts, buy orders that had been placed at a price higher than the new upper limit price and sell orders that had been placed at a price lower than the new lower limit price will be treated as orders placed at the upper/lower limit price.
Since A tags will not be redistributed in the above situations, it is necessary to consider this on the user-side system.
